README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="./docs/assets/rnef.png">
    <img alt="RNEF" src="./docs/assets/rnef.png" height="200">
  </picture>
</p>
<h1 align="center" style="border-bottom: 0px">
  React Native Enterprise Framework<br />
</h1>
<p align="center">
  This is a React Native framework for developing large, modular applications for all the platforms supported by React Native.
</p>

---

## Features

- 🐾 Incremental adoption in native apps thanks to our simplified brownfield approach
- 🔬 Web-like DX thanks to advanced native build caching hosted on your infra
- 🏰 Pluggable design to leverage out-of-tree platforms, custom bundlers, etc.

## Installation

For new projects you can run:

```
npx @rnef/create-app enterprise
```

## Adding to existing projects

1. Install deps:

   ```sh
   npm install -D @rnef/cli @rnef/plugin-metro @rnef/platform-android @rnef/platform-ios
   ```

1. Remove `@react-native-community/cli` and related packages.

1. Add `.rnef/` folder with caches to `.gitignore`:

   ```
   .rnef/
   ```

1. Add `rnef.config.mjs` file:

   ```mjs
   import { platformIOS } from '@rnef/platform-ios';
   import { platformAndroid } from '@rnef/platform-android';
   import { pluginMetro } from '@rnef/plugin-metro';

   export default {
     bundler: pluginMetro(),
     platforms: {
       ios: platformIOS(),
       android: platformAndroid(),
     },
     remoteCacheProvider: 'github-actions',
   };
   ```

1. Update Android files:

   In `android/app/build.gradle` uncomment the `cliFile` and update with the new path:

   ```diff
   -// cliFile = file("../../node_modules/react-native/cli.js")
   +cliFile = file("../../node_modules/@rnef/cli/src/bin.js")
   ```

   In `android/settings.gradle` change:

   ```diff
   -extensions.configure(com.facebook.react.ReactSettingsExtension){ ex -> ex.autolinkLibrariesFromCommand() }
   +extensions.configure(com.facebook.react.ReactSettingsExtension){ ex -> ex.autolinkLibrariesFromCommand(['npx', 'rnef', 'config', '-p', 'android']) }
   ```

1. Update iOS files:

   In `ios/Podfile` change:

   ```diff
   -config = use_native_modules!
   +config = use_native_modules!(['npx', 'rnef', 'config', '-p', 'ios'])
   ```

   In "Bundle React Native code and images" Build Phase in Xcode add:

   ```diff
   set -e
   +if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env" ]]; then
   +source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env"
   +fi
   +if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local" ]]; then
   +source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local"
   +fi
   +export CONFIG_CMD="dummy-workaround-value"
   +export CLI_PATH="$("$NODE_BINARY" --print "require('path').dirname(require.resolve('@rnef/cli/package.json')) + '/dist/src/bin.js'")"
   WITH_ENVIRONMENT="$REACT_NATIVE_PATH/scripts/xcode/with-environment.sh"
   ```

1. Cleanup native files:

   ```sh
   git clean -fdx ios/ android/
   ```

1. Run new commands:

   ```sh
   npx rnef run:android
   npx rnef run:ios
   ```

   Additionally rename flags:

   - `--mode` to `--variant` for Android commands
   - `--mode` to `--configuration` for iOS commands
   - `--buildFolder` to `--build-folder` for iOS commands
   - `--destination` to `--destinations` for iOS commands
   - `--appId` to `--app-id` for Android commands
   - `--appIdSuffix` to `--app-id-suffix` for Android commands

   And remove unsupported flags:

   - `--interactive`/`-i` – the CLI will prompt you for input where necessary
   - `--list-devices` - when no devices are connected, you'll be prompt with a full device selection

1. Configure GitHub Actions for remote builds as per [CI Docs](CI.md)

Commit message:

feat(ios): brownfield plugin (#137)
* add the package build option

* add multiple destinations to build command

* export xcframework

* brownfield docs

* add brownfield plugin

* remove the package option

* accept destinations as an array

* move framework merger code to brownfield plugin

* move outro into tools

* add brownfield to contributing

* implement brownfield packaging

* add the template

* add script phase to docs

* register the brownfield template

* fix script not being added

* fix project name

* update the script phase

* update the docs with the comment

* update pnpm lock

* use correct placeholder in swift boilerplate

* add more docs to swift template

* make script in template build in release by default

* add framework installation steps to brownfield doc

* add intro

* remove the old framework output

* fix formatting and linting issues

* update the snapshot

* fix markdown

* parse destinations at argument level

* move getBuildPaths to apple utils

* remove return output

* don't search for exported framework file, use the var

* clean up readme

* use RCTIsNewArchEnabled helper

* better example for handling errors

* use @objcMembers in template

* fix casing

* prettier

* changeset

* don't include this plugin by default; set plugin template dir to 'template'

* move to docs

* fix images

* fix tests

* update readme

* revert template directory change for now

---------

Co-authored-by: Michał Pierzchała <thymikee@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="./docs/assets/rnef.png">
    <img alt="RNEF" src="./docs/assets/rnef.png" height="200">
  </picture>
</p>
<h1 align="center" style="border-bottom: 0px">
  React Native Enterprise Framework<br />
</h1>
<p align="center">
  This is a React Native framework for developing large, modular applications for all the platforms supported by React Native.
</p>

---

## Features

- 🐾 Incremental adoption in native apps thanks to our simplified brownfield approach
- 🔬 Web-like DX thanks to advanced native build caching hosted on your infra
- 🏰 Pluggable design to leverage out-of-tree platforms, custom bundlers, etc.

## Installation

For new projects you can run:

```
npx @rnef/create-app enterprise
```

## Adding to existing projects

1. Install deps:

   ```sh
   npm install -D @rnef/cli @rnef/plugin-metro @rnef/platform-android @rnef/platform-ios
   ```

1. Remove `@react-native-community/cli` and related packages.

1. Add `.rnef/` folder with caches to `.gitignore`:

   ```
   .rnef/
   ```

1. Add `rnef.config.mjs` file:

   ```mjs
   import { platformIOS } from '@rnef/platform-ios';
   import { platformAndroid } from '@rnef/platform-android';
   import { pluginMetro } from '@rnef/plugin-metro';

   export default {
     bundler: pluginMetro(),
     platforms: {
       ios: platformIOS(),
       android: platformAndroid(),
     },
     remoteCacheProvider: 'github-actions',
   };
   ```

1. Update Android files:

   In `android/app/build.gradle` uncomment the `cliFile` and update with the new path:

   ```diff
   -// cliFile = file("../../node_modules/react-native/cli.js")
   +cliFile = file("../../node_modules/@rnef/cli/src/bin.js")
   ```

   In `android/settings.gradle` change:

   ```diff
   -extensions.configure(com.facebook.react.ReactSettingsExtension){ ex -> ex.autolinkLibrariesFromCommand() }
   +extensions.configure(com.facebook.react.ReactSettingsExtension){ ex -> ex.autolinkLibrariesFromCommand(['npx', 'rnef', 'config', '-p', 'android']) }
   ```

1. Update iOS files:

   In `ios/Podfile` change:

   ```diff
   -config = use_native_modules!
   +config = use_native_modules!(['npx', 'rnef', 'config', '-p', 'ios'])
   ```

   In "Bundle React Native code and images" Build Phase in Xcode add:

   ```diff
   set -e
   +if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env" ]]; then
   +source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env"
   +fi
   +if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local" ]]; then
   +source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local"
   +fi
   +export CONFIG_CMD="dummy-workaround-value"
   +export CLI_PATH="$("$NODE_BINARY" --print "require('path').dirname(require.resolve('@rnef/cli/package.json')) + '/dist/src/bin.js'")"
   WITH_ENVIRONMENT="$REACT_NATIVE_PATH/scripts/xcode/with-environment.sh"
   ```

1. Cleanup native files:

   ```sh
   git clean -fdx ios/ android/
   ```

1. Run new commands:

   ```sh
   npx rnef run:android
   npx rnef run:ios
   ```

   Additionally rename flags:

   - `--mode` to `--variant` for Android commands
   - `--mode` to `--configuration` for iOS commands
   - `--buildFolder` to `--build-folder` for iOS commands
   - `--destination` to `--destinations` for iOS commands
   - `--appId` to `--app-id` for Android commands
   - `--appIdSuffix` to `--app-id-suffix` for Android commands

   And remove unsupported flags:

   - `--interactive`/`-i` – the CLI will prompt you for input where necessary
   - `--list-devices` - when no devices are connected, you'll be prompt with a full device selection

1. Configure GitHub Actions for remote builds as per [CI Docs](https://rnef.vercel.app/docs/remote-cache/github-actions/configuration.html)

1. (Optional) Add React Native to existing native app with a [brownfield plugin](https://rnef.vercel.app/docs/brownfield.html).
